[@Davidsun suggested](https://bitclout.com/posts/b4d326bf91c593a5e4b8a78ac4d08bac5becac06e771aa3972843c2bcb393a29) the Bitclout community would benefit a lot from a AMA with the core team. This post resulted in a bunch of replies with questions people would love to see answered. 

Here is a working document where all the questions posted have been grouped and consolidated. Maybe this can form the basis of a series of FAQ pages based around these AMA questions.

## Roadmap

* Can we have more visibility of the product roadmap? This will help the dev community to build appropriately. Would you consider making the roadmap public? (@GeneGMB @Davidsun @usmansheikh @CloutCurator)

* When will decisions & timescales for move to Proof of Stake be open for review? (@Davidsun @tijn)

* When will verification and profile blocks move on chain and how will this work? (@ItsAditya @Tijn)

* Was Bitclout originally intended to focus on coin price, gains, trading ? And what consideration was given to this maybe encouraging bad behavior and bad actors by design? (@GeneGMB)

## Community Engagement

* Can we have a regular community engagement event, like Clubhouse has their weekly Townhalls (@Davidsun @GeneGMB @CloutCurator)

* What is the status of CIPs and can you give us a top line summary of what scope the CIPs will focus on? (@tijn)

* Will there be hackathons, covering product, user experience, and dev? (@Davidsun @GeneGMB)

* Will there be a fund to support the developer eco-system (@Davidsun)

* In work underway to implement a badges / profile system on Bitclout? Eg designate profiles ad user, trader, creator, developer, project? (@brootle @GeneGMB)

* What criteria are or will be used for user verification as it seems inconsistent at times ? And will there be a way to get verified without social profiles (@ItsAditya @lukasjakson)

* Considering the official twitter account, how do you balance this with being a decentralized network - how do you balance anonymous vs public involvement? (@zopel)

## Growth

* What is the plan for growth ? Many devs funding projects based on anticipated growth.  Crypto winter may cause considerable reduction in engagement.  (@Davidsun @GeneGMB)

* What are the plans for improving user onboarding? Could there be a welcome page for new users with trusted resources, creators / investors to follow, and best practices? Maybe have a user support centre for reporting and tracking issues? (@GeneGMB)

* What happens on 10 August when Bitclout.com expires? (@tijn)

* Are you hiring ? (@Davidsun)

## Reserved Accounts

* Why can’t I access the formerly reserved profiles of many founders like @conaw, VCs like @ariannasimpson, of whom I hold coins in? Did they asked to have their profiles moved? What happens to those that invested in those coins before removal? (@Marnimelrose @Davidsun)

* A big problem is reserved profiles just activating their accounts so they can dump. Would you be open to locking the "gifted" coins of pre-reserved profiles for at least 3 months? (@lukasjakson)


## Exchange

* @diamondhands indicated any Bitclout sold by them on bitclout.com is purchased on blockchain exchange. Does this mean its 1:1 purchase, or does the "Bank" pre-purchase clout on site prior to selling. Can we have more transparency about $clout purchases on site vs on exchange for the bitclout.com bank? (@lukasjakson @Krassenstein @Davidsun @tijn)


## Investing

* What criteria do you (@diamondhands) use when you invest in a coin (@PAZAN)

* What factors influence the BitClout price? (@PAZAN)

* Are there vesting schedules for the original VCs? Is there any deal contractual or otherwise with large early investors on when and or how to sell ? If not what deterrent do they have not to dump early? (@Davidsun @flanagan)

## Blockchain / Genesis

* Why does the transaction ID of genesis block reward not show up as an input for transactions spending clout from genesis block? (@carsenk @tijn)

* BitClout wallet contains over 4k BTC from clout sales prior to genesis, and after. What is its purpose / role ? (@Davidsun @Tijn)

* Whats the role of the 2m clout generated by the devteam as result of FR on 8m genesis clout? (@tijn)

