# 📅 DeSo Roadmap

## Phase 3: Revolution

<table><thead><tr><th width="120">Date</th><th>Release</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Q1 2024</td><td><strong>Focus Reservation Period </strong><mark style="color:green;"><strong>(Launched)</strong></mark><br><br>Focus (focus.xyz)  launches publicly for reservations. <br><br><a href="https://diamondapp.com/u/nader/blog/announcing-focus-white-paper-and-tokenomics">https://diamondapp.com/u/nader/blog/announcing-focus-white-paper-and-tokenomics</a><br></td></tr><tr><td>Q2 2024</td><td><p><strong>Automated Market-Makers launch on the DeSo DEX.</strong> </p><p></p><p>The DeSo DEX is the first fully on-chain order-book DEX, supporting the cross-chain trading of BTC, ETH, SOL, USDC, and DESO via the Openfund client. The DeSo DEX has allowed us to develop the first order-book AMMs, which have been in development for over a year, and which will power Focus Tokens (one-click Meme Coins and Creator Coins). As a trial run, we will be launching our AMMs on the DeSo DEX for the BTC, ETH, SOL, DESO, and OPENFUND markets.</p><p></p><p>This will vastly increase liquidity for these pairs, allowing anyone to buy and sell hundreds of thousands in cross-chain assets fully on-chain with minimal price impact.<br></p></td></tr><tr><td>Q2 2024</td><td><p><strong>- April/May: Revolution PoS launches on testnet.</strong> <br><br>This is the biggest upgrade to the DeSo blockchain ever, years in the making, and arguably the most advanced consensus of any blockchain. Revolution will bring with it:</p><p></p><p>  <strong>• 20% initial APY</strong> for staking DESO<br></p><p>  <strong>• 1 second</strong> confirmation times<br></p><p>  <strong>• 500 posts per second</strong>, and even higher “transactions” per second. This is ~1/10th of Twitter-scale. Anyone who said a blockchain can’t power a Twitter-scale application will be proven wrong.<br></p><p>  <strong>• Liquid bonding.</strong> Stake and unstake with minimal cooldown time (2 hours on Revolution vs weeks on other top-tier layer-1 chains)<br></p><p>  <strong>• No slashing.</strong> Revolution maintains security without slashing, allowing you to stake confidently without risk to your principal.<br></p><p>  <strong>• Auto-compounding.</strong> Staking rewards can be automatically restaked without having to manually claim rewards.<br></p><p>  <strong>• Burn-Maximizing Fee Mechanism.</strong> Revolution burns the theoretical maximum amount per transaction thanks to its “BMF” mechanism, maximizing deflation for coin-holders.<br></p><p>  <strong>• Fully permissionless and decentralized.</strong> Revolution PoS maximizes decentralization, scaling to tens of thousands of nodes, ensuring no single entity can unilaterally control the network or censor users. Anyone can join the network and be a validator with a minimal amount of stake.<br></p><p>  <strong>• Low-cost and simple.</strong> Revolution PoS is a simple protocol, and anyone can run a node on commodity hardware.<br></p><p><strong>- May/June: Revolution PoS launches on mainnet.</strong> <br><br>After two to four weeks of stable block production on testnet, Revolution will be ready for prime-time and the mainnet fork will trigger.<br></p></td></tr><tr><td>Q2 2024</td><td><p><strong>Focus ($FOCUS) launches on HeroSwap &#x26; Openfund</strong><br><br>Focus brings with it a long list of pioneering crypto innovations. For the full list and details, check out our white paper on focus.xyz. We are fairly confident in the June/July timing at this point. We are cutting no corners, and we think it will be worth the wait!<br></p><p>  <strong>• Join to Earn.</strong> The first component of Focus’s viral engine.<br></p><p>  <strong>• Refer to Earn.</strong> The second component of Focus’s viral engine.<br></p><p><a data-footnote-ref href="#user-content-fn-1">  <strong>• The Bounty Hunter.</strong></a> The third component of Focus’s viral engine.<br></p><p>  <strong>• Focus Tokens.</strong> One-click Meme Coins and Creator Coins using our state-of-the-art on-chain order-book AMMs. Focus Tokens will also support <strong>on-chain vesting schedules and fully-customizable on-chain yield curves</strong>. Focus Tokens will mint on Focus and trade on the DeSo DEX via the Openfund client.<br></p><p>  <strong>• On-chain Subscriptions</strong> (with crypto-native payment)<br></p><p>  <strong>• On-chain Paid Unlockable Content</strong> (with crypto-native payment)<br></p><p>  <strong>• On-chain Encrypted Paid Messages</strong> (with crypto-native payment)<br></p><p>  <strong>• On-chain Peer to Peer Content Tipping</strong> (with crypto-native payment)<br></p><p>  <strong>• Decentralized Advertising</strong> (with crypto-native payment)<br><br>  <strong>• Custom Feeds &#x26; Feed Marketplace.</strong> Focus will allow you to adjust all of the parameters that go into computing your feed, creating the first customizable feed experience. Only possible thanks to DeSo’s fully on-chain content.<br></p></td></tr><tr><td>Q3 2024</td><td><strong>DeSo GraphQL API &#x26; State Syncer (with Documentation)</strong><br><br>Releasing production-ready API's for third-party developers to build DeSo applications with GraphQL, Javascript SDKs (DeSo JS), and Indexing tools.<br></td></tr><tr><td>Q3 2024</td><td><strong>DeSo × AI</strong><br><br>Launching the first wave of AI-based content generation and creators in partnership with AI-based tools.<br></td></tr><tr><td>Q3 2024</td><td><p><strong>Tier 1 Exchange Listings.</strong></p><p></p><p>Increase tier-1 listings for $DESO on top exhanges, such as Binance, OKX, ByBit, Kraken and KuCoin.</p></td></tr><tr><td>Q4 2024</td><td><p><strong>The Decentralized Web and DeSo Drive</strong></p><ul><li>Today, DeSo supports storage of social content: profiles, posts, follows etc… But soon we will be upgrading DeSo to support encrypted and unencrypted raw file storage.</li><li>Users will be able to use DeSo Drive to store content directly onto the DeSo blockchain, allowing DeSo to take over the role Amazon’s s3 plays on the internet today</li><li>DeSo will also support rendering of static html pages uploaded to a DeSo Vault, making DeSo a new foundation for hosting a fully-decentralized internet. We call this The Decentralized Web.</li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table>

## Phase 2: The Internet of DeSo

<table><thead><tr><th width="121.33333333333331">Date</th><th width="612">Release</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>Q4 2022</strong><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br></td><td><p><strong>Long-Form Content Standard  </strong><mark style="color:green;"><strong>(Launched)</strong></mark></p><ul><li>Today, people post long-form content to Medium, a centralized platform, or their own self-hosted blogs, which give them no distribution.</li><li>DeSo can combine the distribution of a platform like Medium or Twitter with the control and censorship resistance that comes from self-hosted blogs. And, of course, provide many untapped ways to monetize, like diamonds, NFTs, creator coins, and much more.</li><li>After DeSo standardizes long-form, we think we can make it the #1 destination to share long-form thoughts.<br><br><a href="https://diamondapp.com/u/nader/blog/decentralizing-writing-creating-an-internet-of-ideas">https://diamondapp.com/u/nader/blog/decentralizing-writing-creating-an-internet-of-ideas</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><p><strong>Q1 2023</strong></p><p></p><p></p><p><br></p><p></p><p></p><p></p><p></p><p></p><p></p><p></p><p><br></p></td><td><p><strong>On-Chain Group Chats with End-to-End Encryption  </strong><mark style="color:green;"><strong>(Launched)</strong></mark></p><ul><li>DeSo is already the only blockchain in the world that can support on-chain fully censorship-resistant end-to-end encrypted DMs with on-chain social graphs and identity — and we are extending that functionality to group chats!</li><li>Users will be able to create fully end-to-end encrypted censorship-resistant on-chain groups and add + remove other users from them.</li><li>Similar to secure on-chain DMs, this will be an even more impressive “first of its kind” for DeSo.</li><li>We're calling this <strong>"The DeSo Chat Protocol"</strong><br><br><a href="https://diamondapp.com/u/deso/blog/the-social-network-hard-fork?feedTab=Following">https://diamondapp.com/u/deso/blog/the-social-network-hard-fork</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Q1 2023</strong><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br></td><td><p> <strong>On-Chain Private Content with End-to-End Encryption </strong><mark style="color:green;"><strong>(Launched)</strong></mark></p><ul><li>Today, DeSo offers great “public square” functionality. Your posts are broadcasted publicly on-chain for everyone to see but people want to be able to make posts on-chain that only their followers can see.</li><li>DeSo will be launching an end-to-end encrypted on-chain solution for this, leveraging the innovations behind on-chain end-to-end encrypted group chats.</li><li>This functionality will enable new forms of censorship-resistant communication with followers, as well as new forms of monetization, like subscription models employed by apps like Patreon<br><br><a href="https://diamondapp.com/u/deso/blog/the-social-network-hard-fork?feedTab=Following">https://diamondapp.com/u/deso/blog/the-social-network-hard-fork</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Q1 2023</strong><br> <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br></td><td><p><strong>Associations </strong><mark style="color:green;"><strong>(Launched)</strong></mark></p><ul><li>DeSo will launch a new on-chain primitive called “associations,” which will allow users and app developers to create relationships between users and between users’ content.</li><li>This new primitive will be used to implement <strong>decentralized verifications</strong>, as well as on-chain “reactions” and on-chain “blocks” of other users’ content. </li><li>Associations introduce a decentralized form of authority, effectively implementing previous “web of trust” proposals from the early internet and academia.<br><br><a href="https://diamondapp.com/u/deso/blog/the-social-network-hard-fork?feedTab=Following">https://diamondapp.com/u/deso/blog/the-social-network-hard-fork</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><p><strong>Q1 2023</strong></p><p></p><p></p><p><br></p><p><br><br><br><br></p></td><td><p><strong>Listing Blitz </strong><mark style="color:green;"><strong>(Continued Progress)</strong></mark></p><ul><li>We will build a pipeline of exchanges and work with them all to list DeSo</li><li>This, combined with an increased focus on recruiting credible market-makers, should significantly increase global $DESO liquidity</li><li><p>New Listings:</p><ul><li>Gate.io (<a href="https://diamondapp.com/posts/e4e48726ca1d63423feebcc9077459637506e33684279461ef981d004f5af91c">announcement</a>)</li><li>BitMart (<a href="https://diamondapp.com/posts/1d03431d05f260b72fe73b8960ea949adb9c0a68301f7b835ac6daaf8473b935">announcement</a>)</li><li>LBank (<a href="https://twitter.com/desoprotocol/status/1661409001530331136">announcement</a>)</li></ul></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Q1 2023</strong><br><br><br><br><br><br><br></td><td><p><strong>DeSo Social Wallet v1 </strong><mark style="color:green;"><strong>(Launched)</strong></mark></p><ul><li>A brand new self-custodial DeSo Social Wallet that offers a central place to see all of your social assets including NFTs, DeSo Tokens, Creator Coins, and Social Graph with one-of-a-kind features like NFT PFPs and Derived Key Management.<br><br><a href="https://signup.deso.com/wallet">https://signup.deso.com/wallet</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><p><strong>Q1 2023</strong><br></p><p><br><br><br><br></p></td><td><p><strong>Princeton x DeSo </strong><mark style="color:green;"><strong>(Launched)</strong></mark></p><ul><li>The Princeton x DeSo Startup Competition is a four-week hackathon-style event made for students looking to create and launch the Next Big Thing (using Openfund).<br><br><a href="https://www.deso.com/princeton/">https://www.deso.com/princeton/</a></li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table>

## Phase 1: The Social Layer of Web3

Phase one aims to solidify DeSo as a cross-chain “social layer” for all of web3, starting with a first-of-its-kind social integration with MetaMask and Ethereum Addresses.

<table><thead><tr><th width="121.33333333333331">Date</th><th width="612">Release</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>Q3 2022</strong><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br></td><td><p><strong>MetaMask Integration </strong><mark style="color:green;"><strong>(Launched)</strong></mark></p><ul><li>This launch will mark a transition from DeSo being a single-chain ecosystem to becoming a cross-chain “social layer” for all blockchains, including Ethereum, Solana, and many others</li><li>This launch can enable integrations with ETH-focused platforms. For example, NFT marketplaces like Rarible, Foundation, or OpenSea which have millions of MetaMask users in need of a decentralized social layer for comments, DMs, group chats, and much more.</li><li>With this launch, millions of MetaMask accounts will also gain access to the DeSo ecosystem<br><br><a href="https://diamondapp.com/posts/f3f6343eb166e93036d6bd80ad1e20939973ad0c53449243451df76bf835cab1">https://diamondapp.com/posts/f3f6343eb166e93036d6bd80ad1e20939973ad0c53449243451df76bf835cab1</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Q4 2022</strong><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br></td><td><p><strong>Flux Integration </strong><mark style="color:green;"><strong>(Launched)</strong></mark></p><ul><li>DeSo applications can now integrate seamlessly with their decentralized cloud infrastructure, and all that's needed is a basic docker image of your project.</li><li>You can instantly start to develop, manage, and spawn your applications on multiple servers at once. <br><br><a href="https://diamondapp.com/posts/dd4ba4d6683383c9cb1e40c84c6314cf6edc49273235ca7e30adbd879b588a9d">https://diamondapp.com/posts/dd4ba4d6683383c9cb1e40c84c6314cf6edc49273235ca7e30adbd879b588a9d</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><p><strong>Q4 2022</strong></p><p></p><p></p><p><br><br><br><br><br><br></p></td><td><p><strong>DesoDollar </strong><mark style="color:green;"><strong>(Launched)</strong></mark></p><ul><li>We are launching a breakthrough stablecoin that will enable low-fee USD transactions on DeSo</li><li>DesoDollar will be fully backed, fully exchange-able and interoperable with USDC<br><br><a href="https://diamondapp.com/posts/c58ad7e2c9046f0baf0c7448c252f68fdd682a78da486982ad2a795b0455df82">https://diamondapp.com/posts/c58ad7e2c9046f0baf0c7448c252f68fdd682a78da486982ad2a795b0455df82</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><p><strong>Q4 2022</strong></p><p></p><p></p><p> <br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br></p></td><td><p><strong>HeroSwap Early-Beta </strong><mark style="color:green;"><strong>(Launched)</strong></mark></p><ul><li>We have been working on a platform we think of as the “Stripe for Crypto.” We have been beta-testing it on Openfund and Diamond, but soon it will launch publicly</li><li>The HeroSwap platform will allow for the cross-chain exchange of any cryptocurrency for another via simple API</li><li>There is no other platform that allows blockchains to interoperate this way. HeroSwap will be a global “money router” between all blockchains<br><br><a href="https://diamondapp.com/posts/84fdd166fc3ae09a8569beaa8f8a03239c2ce747740d1b3cb05cb675ef5a1385">https://diamondapp.com/posts/84fdd166fc3ae09a8569beaa8f8a03239c2ce747740d1b3cb05cb675ef5a1385</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Q4 2022</strong><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br></td><td><p><strong>USD Treasury on Openfund </strong><mark style="color:green;"><strong>(Launched)</strong></mark></p><ul><li>The #1 request from top fundraisers when evaluating Openfund is to be able to raise with a USD treasury, which is now possible thanks to DesoDollar and Megaswap.</li><li>Openfund will support the ability to accept funds in *any* cryptocurrency (currently ETH, BTC, SOL, DESO, and USDC), and auto-convert to USD via DesoDollar.</li><li>Projects can raise from communities across many different blockchains, and then cash out their funds to USDC to achieve their goals.<br><br><a href="https://diamondapp.com/posts/ec8fb4d9e6ad07716c13e0c8c6e63fd8d3167604ead4ae98e1c5d78bcde41fcc">https://diamondapp.com/posts/ec8fb4d9e6ad07716c13e0c8c6e63fd8d3167604ead4ae98e1c5d78bcde41fcc</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Q4 2022</strong><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br></td><td><p><strong>New COO Joins  </strong><mark style="color:green;"><strong>(Launched)</strong></mark></p><ul><li>DeSo has historically under-invested in business development and marketing, and we are hiring a key partner to fix that</li><li>Our COO will start by re-engaging all major DESO holders, building a pipeline of potential partners, and building a pipeline of new potential DESO investors<br><br><a href="https://diamondapp.com/posts/4b79b09c6683ec13024888fba97bd4a2d6ff15ba58a3d0d178ef74f8c188a5b8">https://diamondapp.com/posts/4b79b09c6683ec13024888fba97bd4a2d6ff15ba58a3d0d178ef74f8c188a5b8</a></li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table>

## Phase 0: From Beginning to Present

<table><thead><tr><th width="121.33333333333331">Date</th><th width="612">Release</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>Q2 2019</strong><br><br><br><br></td><td><p><strong>Early Research &#x26; Development Begins </strong><mark style="color:green;"><strong>(Launched)</strong></mark></p><ul><li>Nader Al-Naji begins exploring decentralized social use cases and learns that existing blockchains like Ethereum weren't equipped to handle the storage and indexing requirements of social media at scale</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Q1 2021</strong><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br></td><td><p><strong>Decentralized Twitter Prototype (BitClout) on</strong> <strong>DeSo </strong><mark style="color:green;"><strong>(Launched)</strong></mark></p><ul><li><p>Support for full Twitter functionality on-chain</p><ul><li>Profiles, Posts, Follows, Likes, etc…</li><li>End-to-end encrypted DMs on-chain (unprecedented)</li></ul></li><li>Creator Coins took the world by storm as the first asset class that enabled investing in reputation</li><li>Supported ~100k simultaneous DAUs, showing that the DeSo infrastructure can support decentralized social apps at scale</li><li>Fully open-sourced frontend and backend<br><br><a href="https://diamondapp.com/nft/75f16239b57de0531f9579f3817beb0a67515e4999947f293c112fb0260178e4">https://diamondapp.com/nft/75f16239b57de0531f9579f3817beb0a67515e4999947f293c112fb0260178e4</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Q2 2021</strong><br><br><br></td><td><p><strong>First Listing on Blockchain.com </strong><mark style="color:green;"><strong>(Launched)</strong></mark></p><ul><li>DeSo’s first exchange listing via blockchain.com<br><br><a href="https://diamondapp.com/posts/f9249d4e7b14d4b7ab3b9fd3798db659c3a8c2aeedc6f76e2019b122d090576a">https://diamondapp.com/posts/f9249d4e7b14d4b7ab3b9fd3798db659c3a8c2aeedc6f76e2019b122d090576a</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><p><strong>Q2 2021</strong></p><p></p><p><br><br><br><br></p></td><td><p><strong>Social Tipping aka "Diamonds" </strong><mark style="color:green;"><strong>(Launched)</strong></mark></p><ul><li>DeSo pioneers micro-tipping transactions using cryptocurrency in a social app<br><br><a href="https://diamondapp.com/posts/21f9c1e3e570ad2ab8f509bd95ef50d13a05f6c53d752028ac90ea0afa1e10f6">https://diamondapp.com/posts/21f9c1e3e570ad2ab8f509bd95ef50d13a05f6c53d752028ac90ea0afa1e10f6</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Q3 2021</strong><br><br><br><br><br><br></td><td><p><strong>NFTs on DeSo </strong><mark style="color:green;"><strong>(Launched)</strong></mark></p><ul><li>DeSo supports the full ERC-721 standard and becomes the first blockchain to support fully on-chain NFT auctions<br><br><a href="https://diamondapp.com/nft/89561b924ab9d51ea16320a55fe7224b40d6b85d5e73b25297de9a67452acc78">https://diamondapp.com/nft/89561b924ab9d51ea16320a55fe7224b40d6b85d5e73b25297de9a67452acc78</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Q3 2021</strong><br><br><br></td><td><p><strong>DeSo Blockchain Public Launch </strong><mark style="color:green;"><strong>(Launched)</strong></mark></p><ul><li>DeSo Foundation is established to advance the development of the core protocol and ecosystem<br><br><a href="https://diamondapp.com/posts/89d2d0d02e1b41254992e1c09d9dd4973ce6b8d33fa33edfbb08d67acc4afc53">https://diamondapp.com/posts/89d2d0d02e1b41254992e1c09d9dd4973ce6b8d33fa33edfbb08d67acc4afc53</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Q4 2021</strong><br><br><br><br><br></td><td><p><strong>Derived Keys &#x26; Spending Limits  </strong><mark style="color:green;"><strong>(Launched)</strong></mark></p><ul><li>DeSo becomes the first blockchain capable of supporting subscription models and secure offline transactions<br><br><a href="https://github.com/deso-protocol/core/releases/tag/v1.1.6">https://github.com/deso-protocol/core/releases/tag/v1.1.6</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Q4 2021</strong><br><br><br></td><td><p><strong>DESO is Listed on Coinbase  </strong><mark style="color:green;"><strong>(Launched)</strong></mark></p><ul><li>$DESO becomes one of the fastest layer-1 blockchains ever to list on Coinbase<br><br><a href="https://www.coinbase.com/blog/decentralized-social-deso-is-launching-on-coinbase-pro">https://www.coinbase.com/blog/decentralized-social-deso-is-launching-on-coinbase-pro</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Q1 2022</strong><br><br><br><br><br></td><td><p><strong>The Social ERC20 Standard on DeSo  </strong><mark style="color:green;"><strong>(Launched)</strong></mark></p><ul><li>Allows for low-fee ERC20 minting, burning, and indexing via a social profile. <br><br><a href="https://github.com/deso-protocol/dips/blob/main/dips/dip-6.md">https://github.com/deso-protocol/dips/blob/main/dips/dip-6.md</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><p><strong>Q1 2022</strong><br></p><p></p><p><br><br></p></td><td><p><strong>Hypersync Launches </strong><mark style="color:green;"><strong>(Launched)</strong></mark></p><ul><li>Bleeding-edge technical innovation that lowered sync time from 12 hours to 10 minutes<br><br><a href="https://blog.deso.com/blog/hypersync-faq">https://blog.deso.com/blog/hypersync-faq</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><p><strong>Q1 2022</strong><br><br></p><p></p><p></p><p><br></p></td><td><p><strong>DeSo Javascript Framework </strong><mark style="color:green;"><strong>(Launched)</strong></mark></p><ul><li>Deso.js, a Javascript framework for interacting with the DeSo blockchain via its web2 API endpoints launches<br><br><a href="https://github.com/deso-protocol/deso-workspace/tree/master/libs/identity">https://github.com/deso-protocol/deso-workspace/tree/master/libs/identity</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><p><strong>Q2 2022</strong><br></p><p><br><br><br></p></td><td><p><strong>DeSo DEX Orderbook </strong><mark style="color:green;"><strong>(Launched)</strong></mark></p><ul><li>First-of-its-kind fully <strong>on-chain</strong> <strong>non-custodial order-book</strong> exchange, capable of supporting up to 40k matches per second.<br><br><a href="https://openfund.com/trade">https://openfund.com/trade</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><p><strong>Q2 2022</strong><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br></p><p></p><p><br><br><br><br><br><br></p></td><td><p><strong>Openfund Beta Launches (Formerly DAODAO) </strong><mark style="color:green;"><strong>(Launched)</strong></mark></p><ul><li>Building a developer ecosystem starts with an efficient way for developers who are working on interesting projects to get funding. <br><br>Openfund created a decentralized mechanism for developers to raise money from not just the DeSo community, but also the broader web3 community thanks to its clever use of cross-chain swaps via MegaSwap.<br></li><li>Openfund was also the first real-world application to leverage Social ERC20s, cross-chain currency swaps, and on-chain order matching, serving as an example for the web3 ecosystem.<br><br><a href="https://www.globenewswire.com/en/news-release/2023/01/10/2586280/0/en/Coinbase-Backed-Openfund-Pioneers-New-Fundraising-Model-Powered-by-Decentralized-Social.html">https://www.globenewswire.com/en/news-release/2023/01/10/2586280/0/en/Coinbase-Backed-Openfund-Pioneers-New-Fundraising-Model-Powered-by-Decentralized-Social.html</a></li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table>

[^1]: 
